# Genomic prediction of cotton fibre quality and yield traits using Bayesian regression methods

This publication discusses the Genomic selection or genomic prediction (GP) has increasingly become an important molecular breeding technology for crop improvement. GP aims to utilise genome-wide marker data to predict genomic breeding value for traits of economic importance. Though GP studies have been widely conducted in various crop species such as wheat and maize, its application in cotton, an essential renewable textile fibre crop, is still significantly underdeveloped. We aim to develop a new GP-based breeding system that can improve the efficiency of our cotton breeding program. This article presents a GP study on cotton fibre quality and yield traits using 1385 breeding lines from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO, Australia) cotton breeding program which were genotyped using a high-density SNP chip that generated 12,296 informative SNPs. The aim of this study was twofold: (1) to identify the models and data sources (i.e. genomic and pedigree) that produce the highest prediction accuracies; and (2) to assess the effectiveness of GP as a selection tool in the CSIRO cotton breeding program. The prediction analyses were conducted under various scenarios using different Bayesian predictive models. Results highlighted that the model combining genomic and pedigree information resulted in the best cross validated prediction accuracies: 0.76 for fibre length, 0.65 for fibre strength, and 0.64 for lint yield. Overall, this work represents the largest scale genomic selection studies based on cotton breeding trial data. Prediction accuracies reported in our study indicate the potential of GP as a breeding tool for cotton. The study highlighted the importance of incorporating pedigree and environmental factors in GP models to optimise the prediction performance.
It contains  genotypes and  markers.

Title: Genomic prediction of cotton fibre quality and yield traits using Bayesian regression methods
Scientific name: 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.25919/k18n-nk98
Has phenotype 

